Well, when I was a teenager, I didn't see any benefit in talking to my parents because
they like different things than I like.
So I thought I was the point and I also wanted to be an adult.
I wanted to feel like an adult and be treated like an adult.
I remember when my mom used to pick me up from school.
She wanted to show personal interest in me so she asked me, oh, how are your friends
doing?
How was school today?
Do you have a little homework?
But I just thought that she was being nosy.
I always had my earphones on and whenever my parents were trying to talk to me, that was
my chance to just pop them in and ignore them.
The way my parents grew up wasn't the same way that I grew up.
They grew up in a different country.
They spoke a different language.
They grew up in a different time.
When you're talking to somebody who doesn't speak your language natively, oftentimes you
won't be able to explain things from your heart.
And so I had that challenge.
I wasn't able to talk directly to my parents' heart to heart.
And so there was always this frustration in trying to really convey how I felt.
And I felt like it wasn't really getting through to my parents.
When I went to my first pioneer school, I learned a lot about Jehovah's qualities and
one of them was how he was a very approachable person.
And I thought to myself, am I approachable person?
And I thought about how I acted in the ministry and then in the meetings and then at home.
And I realized at home, I had a lot of things I needed to fix.
I felt like it was two different worlds I was living in.
One was when I was at school with my peers.
I felt like I was understood and at home, I kind of just withdrew to myself.
I wouldn't try to communicate with them because it didn't seem worth the effort.
I tried to figure out problems in my own way.
It was kind of a trial and error.
I developed a lot of bad habits that today I'm still trying to overcome.
If I was able to communicate with them more, if I was able to connect with them and ask
for their help and get their support and have them on my team, things would have went
a lot better.
And I really wish I did.
Jesus, who was a perfect human being and who had perfect judgment, didn't make decisions
on his own.
He always looked for his father for guidance.
And I got me thinking, well, if Jesus did that, it has to be something good in it for
me too.
What really helped me was Colossians 4-6.
I knew I needed to speak more gracious in the family.
And I realized that I was speaking very defensively and I needed to be more approachable to my
parents.
When I first tried to talk with them, of course, it was awkward and I didn't want to talk
about anything personal because I was in use to it.
So I thought I could maybe ask them about them, ask them how their day was and what they
like for meetings.
So I just try to show more interest in them instead of focusing on myself.
And I think that's what got the conversation going and got me comfortable to really talk
with them.
I was so focused on how my parents weren't understanding me that I wasn't really trying
to understand them.
When I thought about my parents, I thought about how much work it takes to be a parent.
From when I was a baby, for many years, they were working day and night to try to care
for me.
They never demanded a thank you or anything for me.
They were really self-sacrificing.
And I imagined if I had to work that much for somebody.
How would I feel if they didn't really say thank you?
Or how would I feel if this person who I worked so hard for didn't really view me as their
friend?
Later on as I got older and started that communication going with my parents, I realized taking their
advice and really listening to their opinions and always letting them know what I'm going
to do and where I'm going to go was a mature thing to do.
Our heart oftentimes takes the driver's seat and it directs us to where it thinks it
should go.
And oftentimes it goes in the wrong direction and we sometimes get hurt.
Then we look back and say I wish I didn't do that.
And our parents have been there.
What they're trying to do for us now is to tell us, don't let your heart take the driver's
seat.
If I can talk to my teenage self, I would tell myself to see my mom and dad more like
coaches because I used to think they were always trying to criticize me and point out my
faults but really they're just trying to help me and they want me to have a happy life.
I really wish I knew that as a teenager but I'm glad I learned that now.